The Joe Rogan experience. I found out about your restaurant online.
I was just Googling new places to go for dinner. And, uh, I don't know.
It was like maybe a couple years ago and, uh,
I was Googling steakhouse and then I saw that you specialize in
dry age steaks and I,
I had a steak that you cooked once that was more than a year dry age was just so
it, it was delicious. Yeah. But it was really weird. I mean, it's weird,
<laugh> it doesn't taste. It's different. Anything like a regular steak? Yeah.
It tastes like, um, boy, it's like a different animal. It's like,
you're eating something, you know, some exotic animal. And I.
That's what I like to do. I mean, you know,
it's more age doesn't necessarily mean better.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> but you know, it's just different and that's, you know,
for me as a chef, you know, I call my Drage room, an environmental chamber.
I think that's, uh, yeah, there's a picture on Instagram of me and, uh,
Adam in the, the basement that meat locker.
<laugh> weird meat room that you've got <affirmative> and, um,
it's it's for people that have never been to a dry aging room. It's very odd.
There's fans blown around. Everything's a very specific temperature.
You've got all these different things labeled as far as like what date it was
put in there. And for no one for people who haven't seen dry aging,
it's very odd too, because you like, Hey, what is wrong with that meat? Yeah,
exactly. The outside crust of it. You got the, here's a photo of it. Folks.
You can see it in the background of the, um, it's not working.
You got a technical. There it is. So for folks,
you can see it in the background. The meat has like a black crust to it.
And then you slice that crust off. What do you do with the crust?
Get rid of it, but is it edible?
It's not enjoyable.
What about for dogs?
I wanna give something a dog. I wouldnt eat myself.
Wow. You eat dog food. What's that? Do you eat dog food? No.
<laugh> but you feed your dog.
Dog food. I don't have a dog. I wish I did. To be.
Honest with, I have a dog and he eats dog food. <laugh> yeah.
I'd love him to death, but he eats, uh,
he actually eats ground elk mixed in with, uh, regular dog food. Even that.
I mean, it gets a white Ash, which is almost like a, I call it a,
there's a friendly oxidation. I refer to it and the whole process. Okay.
Is that white Ash, like the same as you get on outset out of salamimi.
It's like that it's part of it. There it's a mold mm-hmm <affirmative> and um,
the whole concept behind dry aging, it's based on three things. It's, um,
air velocity, temperature and, um, humidity, air velocity. Yes. Mm.
And it's really important. I, I like to, you know, uh,
when I teach people about dry aging, it's like,
if you are on a beach in Jamaica and there was no wind and you just start
getting sweat and you're just uncomfortable. Um,
but then if trade winds went through it,
would've at the same temperature to evaporate the water off your skin.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so what we're trying to do is we're trying to at the right
ratio, evaporate the water off the surface.
So it doesn't get like a smelly, stinky, bad mold mm-hmm <affirmative> and,
um, dehydrate it slowly. What it does is it concentrates the flavor.
It transforms the amino acids into a whole different compound and changes the
flavor of together. And then also enzymes within the meat,
through the pro process of rigor, mortis. It breaks down.
So it becomes more tender. So you get flavor enhancement,
you get tenderization and it just, it just blows it away.
So what does it do to the amino acids?
It transforms it into a whole nother compound.
It's like a flavor it's it's like, uh, when we talk, have heard of like,
concept of like myard reaction. Yes.
But I don't know what it means anymore. I I've read the expression,
but I forgot.
What it means. Yeah.
The myard reaction is basically like when you're cooking something, um,
what ends up happening? Spell it. Um, oh God, I'm the worst spell. Is it Mylar?
No. M a I L L a R D, right. My Mylar.
Okay. Okay. Mylar. Okay. I said my wired. Yeah. Okay. Um, that's what I know as,
um, so, you know, when,
whenever you're Browning or you're doing different things at different rates,
amino acid is transform into different things and you get different flavor
compounds. And that's really what happens, you know, with meat, you know?
So if I dry age, you have to handle dry age meat a lot differently.
You can't go on. It's like, okay, I'm gonna slow cook this once. It's dry age.
Cuz then that just,
it develops a really nasty kind of like funky flavor.
But if you cook it under high heat, like really aggressive,
like that's why you have steakhouse broilers.
There's something about that Browning of that dry age meat that transforms that
just like awakens your senses, you know? That's.
Interesting. So you don't slow cook dry age meat. No.
I don't. It gets deliveryery it's almost like adelivery so if really, yeah.
I don't, even, if anybody wants dry age above medium, I try to talk out,
I'll cook it any way you want. But if you start cooking past medium,
it's almost like, you know, uh,
seeing someone like transform, like it, it just ages,
like when you cook it a long time,
it just ages and just turns into something else. It's just, it's nasty.
Those people.
Who want, well done, steak are offensive. You should go and eat burger king,
you monsters. What's wrong with you. When I hear,
when I go to dinner with someone, they order, well done steak. I just cringe.
Like, who am I eating?
Yeah. Some it's a cultural thing. I notice too with some people like they,
I just want cook, but if, if they want a well done steak,
then I recommend a wet age steak to do well done because you know, at least,
you know, you have a fighting chance for some type of flavor that.
Would be be, but it's weird. Like why are you eating steak? Yep. Yep.
You know, it's true. It's, it's true. It's just, that's for me, you know,
for everybody.
It's a criminal to criminal act, you're wasting a piece of.
Meat. It's true. I kind of like, I kind of looked the other way. I mean,
it's it's what do you it's ketchup with that? Yeah. It's, it's painful for me.
Yeah. You know.
It's painful. I mean,
some people grew up eating well done steak and that's how they like it.
Joey Diaz eats medium. Well, medium. Well I'm like, what are you doing?
<laugh> why it just doesn't taste as good.
Mm-m <negative> and it's also, there's an art to the perfect temperature, right?
What's the perfect internal temperature of a medium rare steak,
which should it be like 1 35 or something?
No, it's, it's a bit less, but it's not necessarily a temperature.
It's kind of like how you get there. Okay. Let me explain that to you. So, okay.
I have this method where particularly for thicker steaks where I'll cook it,
I start the cooking and then I get it to about 105
degrees. And then I allow it to rest at 105. And when ends up happening, I says,
I call the, at the, just like tempering of the meat and it basically,
it starts transmitting the, the temperature in, towards the center.
And then I put it back in again and then it will,
it'll it'll heat up the temperature if you like take it.
I would say from medium rare, even though like on many logs will say, okay,
1 21, 25 is rare, but it's not, you know, for me,
if you're gonna do that method, um, a solid medium rare will be about one 20.
Really?
Yeah. So why do they think one 20 is rare? Like.
I don't really understand that exactly. You know, they'll get there.
I think they're overshooting it. Um, particularly for me, it's not rare,
like rare is, is,
is one 10 using the method that I use.
Now. Different people have different methods, which is really,
what's fascinating about cooking meat. Um, I ate at, uh,
a couple times I've eaten at, uh, bizarre meats. Mm-hmm <affirmative> in Vegas.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, which is a fantastic restaurant. Yes. Fantastic. My.
Chef. Wasands.
Amazing. It's an amazing place too. Well, you walk in there. It's just visually,
it's really interesting because they, they have these grills with live logs.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I mean, they take not live honestly, but they take logs.
Yeah. They're cooking all over fire. Yeah. And they have these greats,
these grill grates that rise and, and lower. And um, you know,
you could see how they're doing it when you walk in the door,
like as you're walking to your table, you're passing by. Yeah.
And this method of this idea of cooking over, uh, logs,
like cooking over fire. Some people prefer that.
And then some people like those crazy broilers where they're gas,
but the broiler it's on top and you steak in and it's lowering down exactly.
Like what is the, is there a difference and why.
It really comes down to, um, what your taste preference is. Okay.
For me, like where I'm at right now, dry age,
without any type of smoke or wood is more preferable because I really want to
taste the dry age when you start getting into the wood fire, cooking,
and you're burning, um, uh, logs that aren't burnt out.
I like to cook basically my wood down to charcoal, like to Ash. Um,
so that it's cleaner. Okay. So then you really taste the meat when you start,
you know, burning UN unburnt fuel, you know, the, themselves,
it has like these creosos and different flavor compounds that will get on the
meat. And it's just, it kind of just like coats, your pallet. So for dry,
I like that from a wet age beef. Okay. But for the dry age,
I really like cleaner. I like the steakhouse broiler. I like using a planche,
you know, and that's just like a heated piece of steel. It's like,
you can do that in home with the cast iron. I'm kidding. Well,
it's called a plcher plancha, you know,
it's just kind of like this flat sheet of steel mm-hmm <affirmative> and, uh,
it's all about crust development and surface contact. So like,
I like to cut the steaks on a saw, so it's a perfect line.
And it's all about contact direct with the surface.
It's about the Browning of the meat. You, you know,
if you're going to get in there and you're gonna cook over, um,
live wood like that, he's doing it obviously. Right. Cuz he's amazing.
But you know, when you raise and lower the shelf, like I was saying,
how I rest it mm-hmm <affirmative> like, you can start on the higher,
higher level of the heat and then you bring it up higher. Um,
the actual grill higher and it's actually resting while still getting like the
tickle of, of heat up there.
The tickle.
Of heat. Yeah. So I imagine like, so the flames won't actually touch the meat.
It kind of tickles it.
So it's kind of like it kind of Whis at the bottom of the meat.
And so the way he's doing it, it bizarre meats he's using wet age sticks.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> cuz that's how you would cook over or over that kind of, I.
Don't know if he's doing it. That's my personal preference. I mean,
I think he do some aging. He does do some aging, I believe over there. So.
I mean, but it's, it's just,
I've watched YouTube videos and how to cook the perfect steak.
You can watch three different videos and three different chefs and there's three
different methods and like, well.
Same thing about dry aging though. I mean all dry aging is not created equal.
I call it an environmental chamber.
So think about it like making cheese in France, you say, Hey,
I ought a goat cheese and you think you'd get one type of goat cheese across the
line. I'm creating an environment, just like a cheese maker. Okay.
That's unique to my own. I actually have the culture from like 15,
16 years ago that I've traveled with, you.
Know, put, hold on, you put culture.
So yeah, I've, I've like a method.
I basically take meat that has been aged and I bring those
spores if you will, from that aging meat, cuz you know, there's a mold on it.
It's a friendly mold and it's a friendly mold. Yeah. I like it.
I don't wanna like <laugh> I don't wanna like, you know,
turn people off to it because this has been, I.
Didn't know that you brought your own mold. Yeah. So I,
I just figured you just let it dry age.
It's not as, it's not as simple as that for me.
Like it's each environment again.
So I get away from like someone can turn around and say like my dry age is
incredibly clean at a hundred, a hundred days, 120 days. Um,
because I get the there slowly. Um, my temperature's very low. I like to,
you know, dry age of 32 to 35 degrees. I like a higher humidity.
So I don't dehydrate the meat too soon. I like 85%,
sometimes a little bit lower if I wanna pull. It's really depends. You know?
So when lots.
Of fans, so when you say the cult,
like how are you bringing this culture in and how do you get it to interact with
the meat? I.
Basically take, um, I take pieces from the previous,
you know, dry age room and I bring it to that.
And so I put it up by the fan and it will circulate spores. You.
Put it by the fan, like how do you.
Do that? Well, there's um, a fan in, in a, in a cooler Uh-huh and uh,
it's blowing around. It's like blowing the, so it'll blow the,
the spores around the room. So my dry age has a unique flavor. You know, my try,
you know, some great guys who like masterveors in the Bronx,
which is these guys like my heroes, you know, they taught me practically aging.
Um, they have their own flavors. So their dry age tastes different. You know,
pat lafria's another New York guy does amazing dry age beef as well. You know,
his has a different flavor. So, you know, for me,
that's why I take a lot of pride even though it's not the most cost effective
thing to carry, you know, a hundred thousand dollars in inventory.
But it gives me unique flavor profile. That is,
is my unique selling point for my restaurant.
So you have these pieces. So like those stakes that we saw on that photograph,
you would take one of those dry age stakes when it's ready and then you would
trim the pieces off. Then you'd use those pieces, those darkened pieces. Yeah.
Which just has the spores on it. And that would,
how do you know how much to put in there?
I put a, as much as I can, you know, I'm really, I don't want it too.
Like clean, clean in there. I want it to be an environment. So it's like a cave.
Um, and uh, you know,
I'll put a couple of trays in and then I I'm very tactile. So I'll,
I'll touch the meat and I'll, I'll feel it and you know, I'll taste it.
I'll see where we're at. I'm always cutting into a steak. It's like a lot, like.
When you say taste it, like you cook it.
Yeah. Like I'll cut off a piece. Like how are we looking at 30 days?
How are we looking at 50 days? So each room is different because, um, you know,
I had, uh, tried a room in Vegas and we had, you know, ceilings that were 30,
35 feet, a lot of circulating air. It was just,
it was just like had a different flavor per profile.
We were able to age 150 days and that was like our sweet spot.
Okay. And then here in, in Hollywood, it's a lot less, I have a lower ceiling.
It, it circulates differently. It's just, you have to really kind of taste.
It's not just like, Hey, I have dry age or you go to the supermarket. It's like,
oh, you sell dry age. Okay, great. I'll take it. And if you,
you think that's what it tastes like. It's a good indicator of what it is.
But if you really want to get, you know, like down to it, you know,
each dryage can taste a lot different.
That's so that that's really weird. So it's,
it's very experimental in a lot of ways.
It's constantly moving. I, how long.
Did it take you to dial it in?
Well, when I first did it, it was really by mistake,
particularly the extended age, cuz you just weren't selling the meat.
So I had a couple of PE, a lot of pieces like, like left, you know,
back for a long time. And you know, I was like,
I TA I cut into it and I taste and it's like, whoa, I mean, this is incredible.
And I was talking to the old school guys who, dry age, like, oh,
you're wasting your money. Nobody wants steak over 42 days. You know,
it's just de hydratying whatever. I was like, no, I thinkmont is something,
you know, there's a, there's a big difference here in the flavor.
And as you know, we would see like a huge difference,
a jump into flavor and like good quality. Not like the funky stuff, like the,
the full year that like that's another level. That's, it's very.
Good though. You say funky and I wanna, I just wanna clarify to people.
It is delicious. It is delicious, but it's UN unusual.
It's like you're eating something from Africa.
Like you some unusual kudo meat or something like that. Some strange game. Yeah.
It's gotta.
And you only wanna, you don't wanna eat too much.
Like people want like a whole steak. I'm like, no,
you just want two slices of it. Savor it like a fine wine. Understand it,
get to know it. But don't like hunker down.
On it. How come you don't want people to hunker down on it? Because.
Sometimes too much of a good thing is not good. Okay.
I same thing also for, for the Japanese WAU, like, oh,
you see all that fat and the marvelization it's incredibly rich.
And if you eat it like a westerner, it's not right. It's just,
it's too much. So certain steaks, certain types of beef,
you should be eating only a small amount and appreciating anything more.
Like you just, it's just, I don't know.
It gets me it's it's too much for me. When did.
People start dry aging a year? Like when, when did this really?
Cuz this is not something, I mean obviously I know nothing about restaurants.
Yeah. Other than that, they're great. <laugh> but yeah,
but when I had heard about dry aging, I would hear like 30 days,
dry age, exceed days, dry age. I never heard of a year. Like,
is this a new thing?
Um, you know, they were doing it in Spain for some time,
particularly with the older animals, like the oxin, um, you know,
animals that are five years, eight years, 10 years old.
And they would age these for long periods of time.
I was not aware of this when I started doing it,
but they were the first people that I heard about it was doing it while I was
doing it. There was amazing, uh, food writer,
Jeffrey Steingart who just like dialed into me. And uh,
we did a tasting with one of my culinary heroes, uh, Harold McGee, um,
who wrote the incredible book on food and cooking,
which is a scientific manual to all chefs around, um, he's amazing guy eye.
And he had put in his book that there's really no difference in flavor when you
get to that, that point. And so that later stage,
so we cook three steaks and we cut a cube out of the center of it.
And at that point, you know, he says, wait, maybe there is something different.
Um, I'm not sure. I mean,
nowadays you hear more about out it because we're chefs.
We like to play with things. We like to push the limits on things. But um,
not many people want to make the commitment cuz it's so costly to carry the
inventory and they're scared to actually do it because if you screw it up,
you know, you lose all the money. So, um, I see more of it now,
but back when I was doing it,
there really wasn't anybody else pushing the limits, maybe a few people.
I don't wanna say like I was the only one, but you know,
possibly there could have been a few people, but you know.
The.